[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: Now we are going
to talk about servers in note and
how all that stuff works, how it got here,
what is the tooling for that,
frameworks for that, and
what we are gonna be using.
And then you guys will be diving right
in and actually doing some stuff.
So, Node actually has
a built in http module.
So, okay, what I mean by that is if I
were to come inside of a node file and I
were to say, http and just log it for
you so you can see what that looks like.
If I were to run that,
it's this huge object.
This is built in the node.
An http module which allows us to create
an http server on a TCP connection.
So that's built in a node,
you don't have to download it.
It's just how node works.
Which is great because now it
allows us to build service but
there are some limitations with it.
The problem is that the configuration and
the amount of code you have to write
in order to have basic features.
Is really really overwhelming and
at times it's very difficult.
And I know this because I've built servers
with pure node without any frameworks.
And it teaches you a lot you
definitely learn a lot about node.
And you're forced to do
things that you know.
There's different things you can do
in node is like streams and stuff so
you're forced to learn some of that stuff.
But it's definitely very error prone.
Specially if you don't know
much about networking.
If you don't know to much about networking
you're definitely gonna have some errors.
Maybe some memory leaks, there's a lot
of stuff that's gonna be going on so
you got to kinda know what you're
doing if you're using that.
So, there's tons of frameworks out
there that exist to help us abstract
that difficulty away.
And one of the most popular ones and
they one we're gonna be
using is called Express.
Other notable ones include sales.js,
happy, koa, strong loop,
which is actually built on Express.
So is sales,
they're all built on top of Express.
But Express is by far
the most popular one.
And in my opinion the simplest one,
but it's definitely not,
I wouldn't say it is the easiest one but I
chose this one for a very specific reason.
So, Express is a framework
that sits on to of node and
uses the http module to make building
servers in node not so hard.
There's still a bit of
a configuration with Express.
So if you're expecting something
like Rails, Express is not it.
Wow.
Really?
Really misspelled that.
So yeah, if you're thinking we're
gonna have something like Rails,
where you're just, Rails,
generate this, do this, no.
That's not Express.
That's why I said there are frameworks
that sit on top of Express because there's
still so much configuration with Express
that people have extracted that out and
built frameworks on top of that.
And then there are still frameworks
that sit on top of that as well, so
there's a lot of abstraction.
But Express I think is a good
common place to start.
Because you don't have to deal with http
module directly and all the nuances of
serving static content and dealing around
with URL parsing and stuff like that.
And you also don't have to, you also don't
get this magic of stuff that's happening
for you, you would for
something like cells or something that.
You still have to do some grunt work.
Just a little bit though, not too much.
Any questions on that?
>> Scott Moss: No?
Okay.
So, Express has a very welcoming API.
It makes getting off the ground and
building an API pretty easy in my opinion.
Really, Express, from my experience
by using it a whole bunch of times,
it's really just like a framework
that has routing and Middleware.
We'll talk about Middleware.
Yeah, Mark?
>> Mark: It's a question about
Restify being similar to Express,
can you briefly touch on why you
would use Express versus Restify?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so if we were
talking about Express 3.0 versus Restify,
I'd use Restify.
Specifically for arrest API.
But with the release of Express four and
this new feature
they have with sub-routers which
we'll get into later today.
Express is actually pretty good at
allowing you to build a restful API.
Restify is purely meant, for,
I want to build a restful API and
it's really great at that,
in fact is way better Express than that.
But sometimes you need things
like serving static assets.
Or maybe you need your API server
to also double as a web server.
So you are serving static assets,
you're doing this, you're doing that.
So in that case, I would use Express,
but Restify is definitely is a good one
if all you needed was a Restify API.
So if you're just making an API for
a mobile application,
Restify might be a good choice.
I am not sure how well it is maintained.
I know Express is maintained very,
very well so
I cannot tell you how well
the people are maintaining Restify.
But Express has been releasing pretty
good, pretty heavily ever since it
has been passed over to
StrongLoop from TJ Holloway.
So it is doing a really good job and
it continues to keep going.
But Restify is a good one,
as far as API design in general.
But still, none of them are like Rails.
You're still not gonna
get something like Rails.
The closest I've seen to anything
like Rails and node is cells JS.
And even that, it's not like Rails,
but it's the closest.
>> Mark: And there was one more
question on LoopBack versus Express.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so
LoopBack is actually a framework
that sits on top of Express.
LoopBack is actually
the maintainers of Express as well.
If you go to the Express website,
right here, there's a link for Loopback.
LoopBack, they maintain Express and
then they built this API
framework on top of Express.
That this gives you a little more,
it's more conventional.
It does a little more stuff for you.
You have a lot less setup.
It's a good choice.
But I still don't recommend it unless
you even know what Express is doing.
Because when you get to LoopBack and
you start messing around
with middleware and stuff.
And you don't even know
what middleware is.
You don't know how Express
is handling this stuff.
They're kinda confused, so
I still recommend starting with Express.
And then, once you get familiar with that,
you can branch off and do LoopBack.
Because a lot of the best frameworks out
there I know are built off on Express.
So we have a good solid foundation on
that then moving to something LoopBack or
cells is gonna be pretty easy for you.
This is gonna be as this is gonna come
down to if you like the conventions that
they're forcing you to have.
So, that's what that comes down to.
So, it's configuration,
where Express is more configurable,
and loop back in cells
is more conventions.
Cool.
So, what was I saying.
Yeah.
So, like I said,
Express has a very welcome API.
They take advantage of notes, evented I/O.
Does anybody not know what I mean
when I say that, evented I/O?
So, know just like JavaScript in
a browser, it's single threaded, so
everything is evented.
It's asynchronous.
There's like an event
table where things happen.
Some point later in time use callbacks
to get notified about those things.
So, node has an evince it io the same way.
You can notify different
pieces of your code about
something that has come back
from sometime in the future.
So, Express takes advantage of that very
well with the routing as you see it.
It works, very, very, very good.
So, let's see how that works, but Express
allows us to register callbacks when
a particular combination of ACTP verbs and
routes are hit.
So, that's the beauty of Express,
it's literally just a routing
library with middleware.
It allows you to set up verbs with
routes and then when those routes and
verbs are hit by a request,
that'll run the functions you tell it to
run in that order you tell it ro run.
And that's all Express does.
That's it.
So, Express is just one of many server
frameworks out there for node.js.
Like I was saying, we're using it
because it's the most commonly used, and
its lack of strict conventions will force
you to learn more about what is going on
as you build the API.